# Compressed Image Recovery

## Abstract
Compressed image recovery is important especially in recent decades. JPEG compres- sion is used to save bandwidth and storage space, dividing the image into non-overlapped blocks and quantized in the DCT domain. Sometimes, images are corrupted. Our goal is to recover the original image from the corrupted version. First, we apply image compression, investigating the compressibility of the discrete cosine transform (DCT) of the image. We then reconstruct the image after thresholding the DCT to keep the top 5, 10, 20, and 40 percent of DCT coefficients. Our next goal is to recover the image F from limited random observations of its pixels using the prior knowledge that the DCT(F) is nearly sparse. We use an random permutations of an identity matrix to select pixels (20, 40, and 60 percent of the total number of pixels) and use the CVX package for convex optimization. We apply our method for compressed image recovery to a mysterious image. The image is of the Nyan cat, which is a cat flying through outer space with a Pop-Tart body.

## Motivation
When an original clean image is recovered from the corrupted version, this is image reconstruction or image recovery. An image can be corrupted in many ways such as noise, low resolution, or motion blur. The goal of this study is to recover an image from limited observations of its pixels. We consider a portion of Ren ́e Magritte’s “The Son of Man” along with its corrupted variant. We want to recover the original image from the corrupted version. The original high resolution image 292x228 is first downscaled and gray-scaled to 53x41. We first apply image compression to investigate the compressibility of the discrete cosine transform (DCT) of the image. We then apply compressed image recovery to recover the image F from limited random observations of its pixels using the prior knowledge that the DCT(F) is nearly sparse. Finally, we apply our compressed image recovery steps to recover a mysterious image, which we find later to be of the Nyan cat.

This study is relevant because oftentimes, images are corrupted or altered via the compression process. Image corruption exists in different levels of severity. The restoration task exists in varying levels of difficulty. An extension is to attempt to recover a corrupted image where the corruption varies (in type and severity) as well as test different methods to recover images such as dictionary learning and shape-adaptive DCT thresholding among others.
