# Locating a submarine

## Abstract
The three-dimensional underwater movements of an object that vibrates with a frequency signature can be tracked using acoustic pressure measurements. Vibrations result in mechanical disturbances that propagate through the fluid, increasing or decreasing pressure with time. Acoustic pressure data can be noisy. Using a noisy dummy three-dimensional acoustic pressure data set where a submarine is moving, we demonstrate that the submarine’s trajectory can be tracked using Fourier transform to extract the submarine frequency signature, implementing a filter that extracts this frequency signature to denoise the data, and detecting the submarine over time. In this data set, central frequencies are (-4.712, -1.885, 7.226) and (4.712, 1.885, -7.226), and the filter used is Gaussian. This method has a wide range of applicability in biological oceanography and fisheries research to track marine animal movement.

## Motivation
Given noisy three-dimensional (3D) dynamic acoustic pressure data of unknown orientation where a submarine is moving in time, we aim to detect its location and path. The data was obtained over 24 hours in half-hour increments, and the noise is random and mean zero. The vibrations of a submarine is generated by its propeller, engine, and pump among other parts, making up the submarine’s acoustic signature. This submarine emits at an unknown frequency, which can be determined by transforming the data into the frequency domain. Using a filter to extract this signature frequency and thereby denoising the data, the submarine path can be detected. We demonstrate that we can indeed detect extract this signature frequency, apply a filter to denoise the data, and detect the submarine trajectory.

Object detection is an active field of research with applications in many other fields [1, 2]. Given the complexity of the marine environment, acoustic pressure data are often interrupted by noise [3]. The goal of many tracking algorithms is to obtain better tracking performance in a noisy environment. The method used here is a simple example of what Fourier transform allows us to do, which is to identify an object within a noisy data set. This method can be extended and combined with statistical methods to address more complex problems.
