# Qualifying Red Wine
This homework relies heavily on scikit-learn.

## Abstract
We develop an algorithm to predict the quality of wine based on a series of physicochemical attributes. We apply this algorithm to a batch of new wines. Data obtained from Portuguese "Vinho Verde" variants are used. This data set is widely used to test regression and classification methods. The data set is split into training and testing data. We apply linear regression to fit a linear model to the training set. We apply Gaussian and Laplacian kernel ridge regression to fit a nonlinear model to the training set, using 10-fold cross validation to tune $\sigma$ and $\lambda$. The Laplacian kernel regression MSE (training MSE: 0.040, test MSE: 0.606) is lowest while the linear regression MSE is highest (training MSE: 0.628, test MSE: 0.747). Gaussian kernel ridge regression resulted in a training MSE of 0.438 and test MSE of 0.667. An extension is to develop an outlier detection algorithm and to test feature selection methods.

## Motivation
Wine quality is determined by its physicochemical attributes, such as fixed acidity, volatile acidity, citric acid, residual sugars, and pH among many others. Moreover, wine quality is also assessed by sensory tests, in particular taste. Taste is not a well understood. In this study, we develop an algorithm that predicts the quality of wine and to learn valuable information about trends. We use data related to red variants of the "Vinho Verde" wine. To develop our algorithm, we use three methods: linear regression, Gaussian kernel ridge regression, and Laplacian kernel ridge regression. For the Guassian and Laplacian kernel ridge regressions, we use 10-fold cross validation (CV) to tune the length scale of $\sigma$ and the regularization parameter $\lambda$. We then compare the training and test mean square errors (MSEs) of all three methods as well as discuss which method is most effective and why that might be the case. 
    
The wine dataset we used is widely used to test regression and classification methods as well as develop outlier detection algorithm and to test feature selection methods. We used only data related to red wine variants. The methods of this study can be applied to other marketing problems, such as modeling consumer taste for specific products. 
