# Classifying Politicians

## Abstract
We test the performance of spectral clustering and a semi-supervised regression algo- rithm to predict the political orientation of House members based on their voting records on 16 bills. Data used is the 1984 house voting records. To apply spectral clustering, we construct the unnormalized graph Laplacian matrix on the voting records using a weight function. We compute the Fiedler vector and compute its classification accuracy using the Fielder vector as our classifier. σ in the weight function is a parameter, and we determine the optimal σ to be 1.16 (accuracy of 0.88). We next apply semi-supervised learning, using the unnormalized Laplacian with the σ = 1.16. We then test combinations of different numbers of eigenvectors to keep and and numbers of rows corresponding to the labeled data points we want to keep. We find that the classification accuracy ranges from 0.729 to 0.892 with the highest accuracy with 6 eigenvectors and 5 rows of data. The mean classification accuracy is 0.853 ± 0.043. However, it is difficult to determine whether these accuracy values are statistically significant. This is because the semi-supervised regression algo- rithm is very sensitive to the choice of σ. For example, when we set σ = 3.38, the accuracy ranges from 0.520 to 0.926 with the highest accuracy at 6 eigenvectors and 40 rows of data. An extension is to test different σs with different combinations of numbers of eigenvectors and data points.

## Motivation
Machine learning techniques can be applied to predict political orientation. The goal of this study is to test the performance of spectral clustering and a simple semi-supervised regression algorithm on the 1984 house voting records data. This data set, which consists of the voting records of 435 members of the House on 16 bills, has been widely used to develop and validate techniques like clustering aggregation, categorical clustering, and decision trees, and feature selection. Of the 435 members of the House, 267 are members of the democratic party and 168 are members of the republican party. We first apply spectral clustering to the data set, working mainly with the votes on the 16 bills to cluster the data into (1) democratic members and (2) republican members. We then validate with the party orientation from the 1984 data set. We also test a simple semi-supervised regression algorithm.

This kind of study is relevant today as the current political climate is divided between the liberal (the Democratic party) and conservative (the Republican party) ideologies. These two parties have different opinions on a number of social issues and have different priorities in terms of socio- economic goals. An extension, which involves compiling a new data set, is to evaluate the types of content of each member’s social media feeds to predict political orientation, exploring the concept of an ideological bubble.
